---
layout: post
title: "Slowly Transitioning to Mac OS X"
categories: 
---
A month or so ago, I purchased a MacBook Pro in interest of getting a head start on learning iOS development for my upcoming internship and software engineering courses.  Although the interface is a bit different than those of the other operating systems I've used over the years, I've not found it too difficult to transition into using the machine for work and play.  Overall, I've greatly been enjoying the wonderful hardware and software quality of the MacBook and would recommend one to anybody interested in a a sleek and beautiful device that lends itself to productivity.

Although one's personality likely is the largest contributing factor to his or her productivity, the devices she employs during her periods of work surely are a large influencing factor.  Although I've used other operating systems and devices to great success, I feel this new MacBook has made me more productive without much effort on my part.  In my opinion, Mac OS X Lion allows me to be more productive because of a few features I find incredibly useful.

First, my favorite feature overall must be Mission Control.  Although virtual desktops or work spaces have existed on other operating systems for a large number of years, Mission Control seems to get things finally right.  Switching between work spaces is as easy as using the three-finger-swipe touch gesture to the left and right.  Furthermore, the gesture completes quickly and doesn't seem to lag, even as the number of work spaces increases.  Work spaces are useful as they allow me to group windows (and even the work spaces themselves) logically.  For instance, I will often keep Google Chrome open on the first work space; XCode, IntelliJ IDEA, or MacVim in a second work space; and the Mail client in a third work space.  No longer do I have to contend with multiple window tabs taking up a large amount of screen real estate in a task bar.  Instead, I can separate windows however I see fit so I can easily switch back and forth between them as dictated by the task at hand.  In this way, it is very nice to focus the majority of my attention on one window until the required task is complete.  Moreover, it is very easy to switch windows between work spaces or the ordering of work spaces as is necessary.  All it requires is a three finger swipe upwards followed by a drag and drop of the window or work space in contention.  In addition, although I don't often use it currently, I am a large fan of the Launchpad functionality.  It makes sense to group application launching icons together and not have them clutter the user's desktop work space.

Second, deep integration with Unix provides for a very powerful development environment.  Although I've certainly just begun to scratch the surface of all the offerings of the operating system, I feel as though Mac OS X lends itself to being a better development environment than Windows.  Opening a terminal window to bang out a few shell commands is very easy and feels much faster than on Windows.  Furthermore, although not a native feature of Mac OS X, the wonderful [MacPorts](http://www.macports.org) easily allows one to update his or her collection of "UNIX software", similar in scope to the FreeBSD Ports collection and the Debian-based Advanced Packaging Tool (APT).  Overall, these features combine to form a very powerful development environment.  Similar functionality may be achievable on Windows, but the setup requires little to no work on Mac OS X.

Finally, the sheer novelty factor of a new operating system motivates me to learn how to use it to be more productive.  Although not an inherent feature of Mac OS X itself, the novelty factor of a new technology or new outlook on something is not to be underestimated.  I've been greatly enjoying learning how to use [MacVim](http://code.google.com/p/macvim/) for various tasks through wonderful services like [NetTuts+](http://net.tutsplus.com/sessions/vim-essential-plugins/) and [Vim Casts](http://vimcasts.org/).  Vim is certainly proving to be a more and more useful tool everyday -- a post in and of itself.

Although my Mac OS X journey is just beginning, it's proven quite fruitful already.  I am quite excited to continue learning how to achieve the greatest potential offered through this beautiful hardware and software combination.  Good luck with any journeys of your own!
