---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Programming Contest"
categories: potw
---
Over this past weekend, my school traveled to Pittsburgh to participate in the [Spring Programming Contest and Workshop at Carnegie Mellon University](http://courseweb.sp.cs.cmu.edu/contest/public_html/invitational/2011/).  Overall, I felt we did relatively well for the amount of practice (essentially zero) we had completed before the contest.  To me, it was very interesting to see what it was like to work with a team to complete problems and learn how to debug another's work while they're coding.  At the beginning, it was a bit bizarre as we were testing out the waters to see what each other knew and to determine how we could work together for the best results.  Fortunately, it didn't take too long for us to get acquainted with one another so we could get to work solving the problems.

Apparently CMU's Qatar branch is having a contest with the same problems sometime during this upcoming week so I shouldn't discuss the types of problems we had to ponder, but they were all highly interesting as they were based on Star Wars in one way or another!  Overall, I felt the team did well but definitely has a ton of room left for improvement.  Everyone is interested in doing well next time, however, so perhaps we'll actually practice over the next few months before we enter another physical contest.  If we ever get time to get together, perhaps it will be a good idea to compete in [TopCoder](http://www.topcoder.com/) contests so we can see more of the common algorithms and ways of implementing them within a short time period.

Nonetheless, it was a great experience and I'm truly glad we went.  Because I usually program by myself and with limited interaction with others, it was thrilling to be in a room with a ton of people who are all working on and getting excited about various problems.  Furthermore, it was surprising to see the varying types of people who were at the contest who were breaking the general computer science/mathematics stereotype.  In a sense, it's much like the wide variety of people who play and enjoy Magic: the Gathering.

As of yet, I'm not entirely sure what I would like to complete this week.  Various projects both inside and outside of school are unfortunately taking up a large amount of my time, but I've been enjoying them and learning new things, so it's not as though I feel it's a waste.  I've been wanting to learn more about javascript and mobile development, so perhaps my upcoming project will involve integrating [xui, "a super micro tiny dom library for authoring html5 mobile web applications"](http://xuijs.com/) into the forth-coming [Magically.US](http://playground.triageworks.net/magic/), a tool for managing the worth of your Magic: the Gathering collection.

Until next time, stay classy!
